 
Application Checklist:  
Graduate STEM Programs   
 
 
All applicants to Katz School graduate STEM programs must submit the following:  
 
 A submitted   online application . 
 
 US$50 non -refundable application fee . 
 
 Transcripts (in English) from all colleges and universities attended  – Unofficial transcripts 
are acceptable for admissions review purpose s. Upon arrival on campus and before the first day 
of classes, you must submit final official transcript(s) and all official test scores . In case of any 
discrepancie s between your official documents and unofficial documents submitted at the time 
of application, your admission will be rescinded.  
 
 Statement of Purpose  – Your s tatement should describe your academic and professional 
goals, interest in the Katz  School master’s  degree , and your readiness for success in the 
program.  
 
 Resume/CV  
 
 2 Letters of Recommendation  – required for Mathematics and Physics programs only.  
 
 English Proficienc y – All non -native English -speaking applicants must demonstrate English 
language proficiency  before they can enroll in a Katz School degree . Applicants  must meet one 
of the following minimum requirements: TOEFL: 85; IELTS: 6.5; Duolingo: 110; PTE: 59.  
 
Tests must be taken no more than two years prior to the date of your application. All 
official test score reports must be sent electronically from the respective testing agency directly 
to Yeshiva University  before enrollment . TOEFL home tests are not accepted.  
 
Use the fol lowing codes when sending official test scores to the Katz  School :  
TOEFL: 2990; IELTS: Yeshiva University Graduate School; Duolingo: Yeshiva University Katz 
School of Science and Health ; PTE:  Yeshiva University Katz School of Science and Health . 
 
Please note: Applicants who received a bachelor’s degree or higher from a university in the U.S. 
do not need to provide evidence of English proficiency. Students who completed their degree 
(bachelor's or higher) in any of these countries  are also exempt from the English proficiency 
requirement.   
 
Katz School offers a fully online  11-week  intensi ve English program  for applicants with low -
intermediate to upper -intermediate English skill s. Contact an admissions director to learn 
more.  
 
 GRE and/or GMAT  – required for Physics and Math ematics  programs only. Optional for all 
other programs. Use this code when sending official test scores to the Katz school : Math  4778 . 
 
 Three -Year Bachelor’s Degree  – We accept the traditional 3 -year bachelor’s degree from 
countries that participate in the  Bologna Process . For students who received a 3 -year degree 
from an accredited institution in India, you must meet one of the two requi rements below:  
• Your undergraduate college (not affiliated university) must have a NAAC “A” or better 
grade and you must be graduated in First Clas s. Please provide the proof of NAAC 
accreditation document along with your transcript.  
• You obtained a master’s  degree or post graduate diploma.  