The M.S. in Biotechnology Management and Entrepreneurship is an interdisciplinary program designed specifically for the workforce needs of the biotechnology industry. This highly competitive program impacts society in the areas of food, fuel and health. In this program, you'll master the mission-critical scientific, technical and business knowledge needed to launch, manage, scale and commercialize biotechnology innovations and delivery systems. You’ll learn what it takes to shepherd a great idea through regulations, clinical trials, compliance and patents. And you'll merge your knowledge of science, technology and business, such as marketing, customer development, analytics and new business development, to effectively bring pharma and biotech products to market. 


Biotech Fellows:

Join students and alumni from over 30 countries to work on pioneering research, citywide initiatives and new technologies that help to make the world smarter, safer and healthier.

Benefits:

Receive industry mentorship
Showcase and publish your research at Katz School's annual Symposium on Science, Technology and Health
Receive a scholarship reducing total tuition to $25K* for your entire graduate degree, start to finish — whether you complete your degree in one or two years
Learn more about the Fellows Program.

B.A./M.S. Pathways Option:

Through the B.A./M.S. program, undergraduates from Yeshiva College and Stern College for Women can take up to nine graduate credits that count toward both the bachelor’s and master's degrees. After completing the bachelor’s, students can finish the graduate degree in just one more year. 
Admissions criteria: A minimum of 84 credits completed in any YC/SCW undergraduate major with a minimum GPA of 3.0 and a minimum grade of B in the prerequisite coursework listed below. Students can begin taking graduate courses in their senior year.
For more information, visit www.yu.edu/pathways

Internships and STEM-OPT:

Gain industry experience in major companies, startups and the YU Innovation Lab through internships that count toward your degree. The Master’s in Biotechnology Management and Entrepreneurship is a STEM-approved degree. International students may be eligible for up to 36 months of Optional Practical Training (OPT). The program also offers several opportunities for Curricular Practical Training (CPT). 

Recent Internships :

Merck
Kantar Health 
BioMarin 
Marwood Group 
New York Stem Cell Foundation 
Lucerna 
SFA Therapeutics 
Interested in this program? Apply Now! 