The Katz School’s M.S. in Digital Marketing and Media is an industry-driven, project-based degree program with a distinct focus on the power of digital media and social drivers of behaviors. This unique master’s degree arms you with essential media, design, communication, behavioral, analytical, technical and research skills. You’ll learn evidence-driven strategies for identifying and segmenting markets, reaching and engaging potential consumers, and converting them into loyal customers. And you’ll master in-demand strategies for social media, SEM, SEO, mobile, email, content and video. Get your M.S. in Digital Marketing and Media from a world-class university. One-year or 15-month programs are available full-time, part-time or weekends, with classes in Manhattan.
In the last decade, digital marketing and media has shifted from a niche skill set to a baseline expectation. Companies large and small want professionals who take a digital-first approach to campaigns and brand management using tools such as SEM, SEO, geotargeting, email, content and video. They also expect that their digital spending is based on analytics that produce data-driven insights.


Benefits:

Receive industry mentorship
Showcase and publish your research at Katz School's annual Symposium on Science, Technology and Health
Receive a scholarship reducing total tuition to $25K* for your entire graduate degree, start to finish — whether you complete your degree in one or two years
Learn more about the Fellows Program.

B.A./M.S. Pathways Option:

Through the B.A./M.S. program, undergraduates from Yeshiva College and Stern College for Women can take up to nine graduate credits that count toward both the bachelor’s and master's degrees. After completing the bachelor’s, students can finish the graduate degree in just one more year. 
Admissions criteria: A minimum of 84 credits completed in any YC/SCW undergraduate major with a minimum GPA of 3.0 and a minimum grade of B in the prerequisite coursework listed below. Students can begin taking graduate courses in their senior year.
For more information, visit www.yu.edu/pathways

Internships and STEM-OPT:

Gain industry experience in major companies, startups and the YU Innovation Lab through internships that count toward your degree. The M.S. in Digital Marketing and Media is a STEM-approved degree. International students may be eligible for up to 36 months of Optional Practical Training (OPT). The program also offers several opportunities for Curricular Practical Training (CPT). 
Interested in this program? Apply Now! 