In the M.A. in Mathematics, students gain a solid foundation in advanced mathematics and develop skills in mathematical modeling, numerical applications and data analysis in order to succeed in a variety of professions. A master's degree in mathematics opens many doors to jobs in finance, technology, biomedicine and data analysis, among others. The master’s program also provides an excellent foundation for our Ph.D. program.
Jobs in math occupations are expected to grow 27 percent through 2029, much faster than the average for all occupations, and will add about 56,100 jobs, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. This growth is based on the expectation that businesses and government agencies will continue emphasizing the use of big data. Math salaries were on average $90,410 in 2019. Generous scholarships and financial aid are available for a limited time. Come to New York City to study and network with the best. 

Program Highlights:

Gain a broader understanding of the mathematical fields, their interrelations and traditional applications
Learn how to formalize difficult real-world problems, identify the core challenges and select the appropriate tools of analysis, as well as how to communicate large amounts of information in a rigorous and concise fashion
Master skills and strategies in mathematical modeling, numerical applications and data analysis
Prepare for careers in industry, finance, engineering, business, medicine and academia
Gain industry experience through internships and research
Benefit from career support and professional networking opportunities
Build a foundation to keep yourself competitive in an ever-shifting job market
STEM-OPT eligible
, 

Current Research Areas:

Dynamics of systems with small degrees of freedom with emphasis on ergodicity, chaotic behavior, statistical properties
Dynamics of systems with large and infinite degrees of freedom with emphasis on statistical and thermodynamical properties
Dynamics of celestial bodies, financial markets, and climate
Applied noncommutative geometry and materials science
Applied operator algebras and dynamical systems
Differential geometry and partial differential equations
Topological data analysis
Quantum algorithms for quantum computers

Math Fellows:

Join students and alumni from over 30 countries to work on pioneering research, citywide initiatives and new technologies that help to make the world smarter, safer and healthier.

Benefits:

Receive industry mentorship
Showcase and publish your research at Katz School's annual Symposium on Science, Technology and Health
Receive a scholarship reducing total tuition to $25K* for your entire graduate degree, start to finish — whether you complete your degree in one or two years
Learn more about the Fellows Program.

B.A./M.A. Pathways Option:

YU undergraduates can take up to 12 graduate credits that count toward both the bachelor’s and master’s degrees. After completing the bachelor’s, students can finish the M.A. in Mathematics in just one more year.   
Admissions criteria: Junior in any undergraduate major with a minimum GPA of 3.2 and a minimum grade of B-plus in the prerequisite courses listed below. Students can begin taking graduate courses in their junior or senior year.  
Prerequisites for graduate coursework: Calculus I and II, Multivariable Calculus and Linear Algebra – all with a minimum grade of B-plus. 
Learn more at www.yu.edu/pathways.

Internships and STEM-OPT :

Gain industry experience in major companies, startups and the YU Innovation Lab through internships in the financial capital of the world -- New York -- that count toward your degree. Read more on the curriculum page or speak with an adviser.
Yeshiva University's master’s in mathematics is a STEM-approved degree. International students may be eligible for up to 36 months of Optional Practical Training (OPT). The program also offers several opportunities for Curricular Practical Training (CPT). 
Interested in this program? Apply Now!