With the Katz School’s master’s in cybersecurity, you’ll develop the technological and managerial expertise to plan, implement, upgrade, monitor and audit cybersecurity protocols and procedures. You’ll master state-of-the-art technologies and practices, and you’ll get hands-on experience with threat mitigation, detection and defense in the heart of New York City—a global hub for cybersecurity.


Recent Projects:

Capture the Flag: Opportunities for the Cybersecurity Classroom
Two Step Verification System Using Face Recognition
Cymple Bits Security Analysis (Won 1st Place in the 2022 ISACA Cybersecurity Case Study Competition)
Equifax Data Breach Analysis (Won 1st Place in the 2021 ISACA Cybersecurity Case Study Competition)

Tech Fellows:

Join students and alumni from over 30 countries to work on pioneering research, citywide initiatives and new technologies that help to make the world smarter, safer and healthier.

Benefits:

Receive industry mentorship
Showcase and publish your research at Katz School's annual Symposium on Science, Technology and Health
Receive a scholarship reducing total tuition to $25K* for your entire graduate degree, start to finish — whether you complete your degree in one or two years
Learn more about the Fellows Program.

B.A./M.S. Pathways Option:

Through the B.A./M.S. option, undergraduates from Yeshiva College and Stern College for Women can take up to nine graduate credits that will count toward both their bachelor's and master's degrees. After completing their bachelor's, students can finish their graduate degree in just one more year.
Admissions criteria: Junior or senior in any YC/SCW undergraduate major with a minimum GPA of 3.2 and a minimum grade of B-plus in the prerequisite courses listed below. Students can begin taking graduate coursework in their junior or senior year.
Prerequisites for graduate courses: One computer networking or security course with a minimum grade of B-plus.
For more information, visit www.yu.edu/pathways

Internships and STEM-OPT:

Gain industry experience in major companies, startups and the YU Innovation Lab through internships that count toward your degree. Yeshiva University's master’s in cybersecurity is a STEM-approved degree. International students may be eligible for up to 36 months of Optional Practical Training (OPT). The program also offers several opportunities for Curricular Practical Training (CPT). 

Recent Internships :

Radware 
New York City MTA 
Bank of New York Mellon 
Technical Consulting and Research, Inc. 
American Eagle Outfitters 
Interested in this program? Apply Now! 