Data is the information economy’s fuel; like solar energy, it is a renewable resource that can benefit everyone at once without being diminished. Companies want to harvest as much data about people as possible to target them for advertisements, track high-traffic areas in stores or show us more cat videos to keep us on their site longer. Data provides a record of what has already happened, but its main value comes from improved decision-making and predictive capabilities. Major companies choose products and prices based on what you, and others like you, bought in the past. Your data improves their decision-making, boosting corporate profits. By transforming quantitative data into qualitative insights, data analytics professionals shape organizational strategies and impact the bottom line. They also contribute to the greater social good, using data to address pressing challenges in health care, housing, poverty, education and transportation.
In the Katz School’s M.S. in Data Analytics and Visualization, you’ll learn to transform raw data into insightful output. You’ll master the underlying science of predictive and exploratory analyses as well as techniques for creating visualizations and data narratives. You’ll master in-demand tools like Python, SQL/NoSQL, Tableau, AWS and AutoML. And unlike other data analytics programs, you’ll experiment with basic AI and machine-learning techniques. Learn from world-class professionals and get real-world predictive and analytical skills in the heart of New York City. Generous scholarships and financial aid are available.


Benefits:

Receive industry mentorship
Showcase and publish your research at Katz School's annual Symposium on Science, Technology and Health
Receive a scholarship reducing total tuition to $25K* for your entire graduate degree, start to finish — whether you complete your degree in one or two years
Learn more about the Fellows Program.

B.A./M.S. Pathways Option:

Through the B.A./M.S. option, undergraduates from Yeshiva College and Stern College for Women can take up to nine graduate credits that will count toward both their bachelor's and master's degrees. After completing their bachelor's, students can finish their graduate degree in just one more year. 
Admissions criteria: Junior or senior in any YC/SCW undergraduate major with a minimum GPA of 3.2 and a minimum grade of B-plus in the prerequisite courses listed below. Students can begin taking graduate coursework in their junior or senior year.
For more information, visit www.yu.edu/pathways.

Internships and STEM-OPT:

Gain industry experience in major companies, startups and the YU Innovation Lab through internships that count toward your degree. Yeshiva University's M.S. in Data Analytics and Visualization is a STEM-approved degree. International students may be eligible for up to 36 months of Optional Practical Training (OPT). The program also offers several opportunities for Curricular Practical Training (CPT). 

Recent Internships :

Standard & Poor's 
American Eagle Outfitters 
Image360 
Partify 
Alpha Properties 
Berdon LLP Accountants and Advisors 
DENTIDESK, Inc. 

Recent Jobs:

IBM
BlackRock
Interested in this program? Apply Now! 