The Ph.D. in Mathematical Sciences at Yeshiva University emphasizes the many facets of complex systems, with the latter taking abstract or concrete forms such as financial markets, biological systems, quantum materials, meta-materials, fluids, plasmas, networks and big data. The tools of analysis pursued and developed by department faculty include topological, geometrical and functional analysis; optimization theory; complexity theory; partial differential equations of elliptic, hyperbolic and mixed type; noncommutative geometry; operator algebras; risk theory; and ergodic theory.
The Ph.D. program offers three tracks: 
Track I: Three years of study for students who enter with 60 credits of graduate coursework  
Track II: Four years of study for students who enter with 30 credits of graduate coursework 
Track III: Five years of study for students who enter with no previous graduate coursework  
A Ph.D. in mathematics is the first step to a job in materials science, dynamical systems, complex systems, and more. Students graduating from our Ph.D. program are prepared to pursue mathematics at the highest levels, as research mathematicians, university professors or applied mathematicians in business, industry or government. YU has an exceptional tradition and legacy in mathematical physics and an impressive track record of training research mathematicians. Famous alumni include Hillel Furstenberg (Abel Prize in Mathematics 2020), Benjamin Weiss, Michael Aizenman and Charles Peskin. We also leverage our excellent locations in midtown and uptown Manhattan to provide our students with internships, to build connections, and to land competitive jobs within and outside of academia. 

According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, median salaries as of 2019 for jobs with a Ph.D. were: actuary ($108,350); postsecondary education administrator ($95,410); mathematician and statistician ($92,030); operations research analyst ($84,810); and postsecondary mathematics and science teacher ($73,690). Generous scholarships and financial aid are available for a limited time. Come to New York City to study and network with the best. Apply now!  

Program Highlights:

Solid and rigorous foundations built with real-world applications in mind
Guided journeys from abstract to concrete and from general to ultra-specialized mathematics
Hands-on experience with modern tools of analysis, including numerical techniques and software training
Immersive research experiences supported by external funding

Gain industry experience in major companies, startups and the YU Innovation Lab through internships in the financial capital of the world – New York – that count toward your degree. Read more on the curriculum page or speak with an adviser.
Yeshiva University's Ph.D. in mathematics is a STEM-approved degree. International students may be eligible for up to 36 months of Optional Practical Training (OPT). The program also offers several opportunities for Curricular Practical Training (CPT). 
Interested in this program? Apply Now!
