

Mindy Garfinkel, OT Doctorate
Interim Program Director

EXPERTISE: Pediatric/school-based practice; and assistive technology

Dr. Garfinkel, OTD, OTR/L, ATP is an occupational therapy practitioner with more than 30 years of experience, twenty of which have been in the field of pediatrics and school-based practice, and 10 in the area of adult rehabilitation. She is certified as an assistive technology professional (ATP) through the Rehabilitation and Engineering Society of North America (RESNA).

After receiving her post-professional occupational therapy doctorate (OTD), Dr. Garfinkel joined academia and devoted more time to research and other scholarly pursuits. Her research interests include service delivery in school-based practice, literacy, Universal Design for Learning, and assistive technology to support all individuals.

Engaging in service to the profession in several ways, Dr. Garfinkel serves on the Education Committee of RESNA. She was the Technology Coordinator for the Children and Youth Special Interest Section (SIS) of the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA), and a Professional Development Coordinator for AOTA’s Technology SIS. Dr. Garfinkel is a founding member of the AOTA Literacy Community of Practice and the AOTA School-Based Community of Practice.

Dr. Garfinkel has presented nationally on a variety of topics related to her research and committee work. She collaborated with colleagues to create a continuing education product for AOTA; materials for advanced certification in school-based occupational therapy practice; and participated in webinars. She has also established a website to house research and resources on Caseload to Workload in school-based practice, the topic of her doctoral research.

Dr. Garfinkel holds a post-professional doctorate in occupational therapy from Quinnipiac University, a Master of Arts in occupational therapy from New York University, and a Bachelor of Arts in communications from the City University of New York, Flushing.

