 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NEW STUDENT  
WELCOME  PACKET  
 
Spring 2023  
 
 
 
MESSAGE  FROM  THE DEAN  
 
 
Congratulations  on your  acceptance  to the Katz  School  of Science  
and Health ! You are  joining a  community of talented graduate students 
from over 22 countries across six continents. Your enthusiasm and talent 
are palpable, and we can’t wait to see the great work you do. 
 
Likewise, New York City is brimming with energy. For those of you 
attending on campus program s, I hope you’ll take advantage of 
everything the  city has to offer. See the sights, join a sports league, walk 
through Central Park.  
 
Your program directors  and faculty  are here for you every step of the 
way; reach out to them. If you have logistical questions about things like 
registration, write to katz@yu.edu . And if you’re looking to get involved 
in student life or need additional support, write to 
katzstudentservices@yu.edu.  
 
You’ll also have access to the university’s full range of student support 
services, including  library services,  counseling, public safety, 
international student services, and career support.  We are here to help.  
 
Wishing you the best in your studies.  
 
 
 
Paul Russo, PhD  
Dean, Katz School of Science and Health  
 

  
 
 
WELCOME TO THE KATZ SCHOOL OF SCIENCE AND HEALTH  
 
We are research scientists, tech builders and patient centered clinicians working on problems that 
matter. We focus on industries that are reshaping the way we live and work: AI and Analytics, 
Biotechnology, Cybersecurity, Digital Media, Fintech, as well as Occupational Therapy, 
Physician Assistant Studies, and Speech -Language Pathology.  
 
This welcome packet outlines your next steps at the Katz School, as well as the academic and 
student services that we offer. If you have any questions along the way, write to katz@yu.edu. 
We’re here for you.  
 
 
STUDENT  SPOTLIGHT  
 
 
“Thanks to the data analytics master’s program, I have gained numerous technical skills 
that allowed me to join one of the most prestigious technology companies in the world. 
I’m now designing and building solutions that I never thought I would. I needed th at 
extra level of academic experience from the Katz School  to be able to talk about the 
technical side of the business at IBM with confidence. ”  
 
Jesus Olivera  ’22, M.S. in Data Analytics and Visualization  
Data Engineer, IBM  

 
“The Katz School’s curriculum is closely aligned with the skills required in the 
professional world, which made it easier for me to navigate the work world after 
graduation. The small classes meant I could really connect with faculty and classmates, 
and I had great opportunities to gain hands on experience through faculty research and a 
summer internship at S&P Global.” 
 
Xiaolan Li  ’22, M.S. in Artificial Intelligence 
Associate Software Engineer, JPMorgan Chase  
 
 
“The Katz School’s PA curriculum immerses you completely in what you’re learning. 
You get to see the same thing from so many different angles at the same time, so it’s 
almost impossible not to retain information. The faculty teach medicine the way you 
practice it, by weaving together ideas from seemingly disconnected threads. From my 
experience in the hospital, that’s the way it’s done.”  
 
Anthony Pagan ’24, M.S. in Physician Assistant Studies  
 
 
 
NEW STUDENT CHECKLIST  
 
Submit your final official transcripts and a copy of your diploma.  
Official transcripts from any institution  where you completed 9 or more credits and a 
copy of your diploma must be received before the first day of classes. Please have 
your official transcripts sent digitally by the schools to katzgrad@yu.edu .  
If only a physical sealed copy is available, please send to: 
 
Office of Graduate Admissions  
Yeshiva University  
Attn: Jordana Cohen  
500 West 185th Street  
New York, NY 10033  
 
Please note: For students who have completed their studies outside of the U.S. and 
Canada, a NACES evaluation may be requested by the Admissions team.  
If you are an international student, apply for your student visa  (page 5). 
Access your YU Gmail account  (page 6). 
Access your Student Services Dashboard on InsideTrack  (page s 6-7). 
Understand your scholarships, loans, and tuition payments  (pages 8 -9). 
Learn about YU’s health insurance or submit your insurance waiver  (page 10).  
Complete your immunization forms  (page 10).  
Send your information to receive your student ID  (page 11).  
Get acquainted with the Katz School’s  campus locations and getting around 
New York City (page s 12-15). 
Secure on -campus or off -campus housing  (pages 1 6-17). 
Check out our student support services (pages 1 8-19). 
Meet with your Academic Advisor/Program Director and register for classes  
(page 20).  
Attend required New Student Orientation  (page 20).  
Connect with the Katz School on social media  (page 20).  
Start classes!   
 
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL SERVICES (OISS)  
 
International students and faculty are an important part of Yeshiva University’s vibrant community.  
YU’s Office of International Services  (OISS)  provides international stud ents and scholars with 
immigration support and assistance with cultural adjustment. 
OISS also acts as a liaison with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to ensure university -
wide legal compliance with government immigration regulations and reporting requirements.  
All deposited students will receive an email from OISS with instructions for submitting their I -20 
application.  
If you have any questions, contact OISS by phone at (646) 592-4203 or by email at oiss@yu.edu . Visit 
www.yu.edu/oiss for more information.  
 
  
STUDENT ACCOUNTS  AND ACADEMIC TECHNOLOGY  
 
YU Active  Directory  (YUAD)  
YUAD  gives  you access  to student  technology  and accounts,  including  wireless  internet,  printing, 
on-campus  computers,  Canvas  (YU’s learning management system for online coursework) , and 
more.  Look  up your  YUAD  username  and default  password at yu.edu/findid. 
Please  note:  if you do not have  a Social  Security  number  or it was not entered  on your application 
to YU, your YUAD  default  password  may end in the last four digits  of your Banner ID instead of 
the last four digits  of your  Social  Security  number.  
Student Email  
 
YU student email is powered by Gmail. Once your enrollment deposit is received, you will be  sent an 
automated email from our Banner system within 3 business days (Monday - Friday) , including details on how to set up your email.   
 
SPAM/JUNK:  Be sure to check your spam  or junk folder for the YU student activation email.  
  
If you haven’t received your YU student activation email within 3 business days, try logging into Gmail 
(www.gmail.com ) using the following:  
• Username:  YU Active Directory ( YUAD) username (see above).  
• Password: Your default password is the first letter of your last name and the last four digits of 
your Social Security number.    
Should you require assistance with using or accessing your email, please contact the  ITS Helpdesk at 
(646) 592 -4357  or helpdesk@yu.edu . 
 
Inside Track Student Services Dashboard  
 
This central hub allows  students to view important information , such as class schedules, registration, student finance and financial aid, grades, transcripts, and more.  
To access your dashboard, go to https://insidetrack.yu.edu . 
1. Log in with your user name and password     
2. On the side panel, click on “Students”   
3. Select “Graduate”  
4. Select on “Student Service Dashboard”  
5. Forgot your PIN? Enter your Banner ID number on the login page and click “Forgot PIN?”   
  
InsideTrack Student Services Dashboard  View  
 
   
Campus Computing Resources   
University computers in labs, libraries, and study spaces can be accessed with your unique YUAD 
credentials. Login with your credentials to any on -campus computer on the network. Documents saved to your Z drive are accessible to  you whenever you log  in.  
If you are locked out or experience other technical issues, contact the  ITS Help Desk at (800) 337-2975 or 
helpdesk@yu.edu.   
ITS Helpdesk  
The ITS Help Desk is available to answer any questions about university technology. Contact 
them at (800) 337-2975 or  helpdesk@yu.edu . 
 
  

TUITION, FINANCIAL AID , AND FUNDING  
 
Tuition, Billing, and Payments   
• Making Payments:  To view your tuition bill and make payments, log  into 
https://insidetrack.yu.edu . 
• Payment Plans:  YU offers a per -semester , monthly payment plan to make budgeting easier.   
• Tuition and Fees:  Please note that tuition and fees are subject to annual increases . For the latest 
information on tuition, fees, and payment plans, please visit:  www.yu.edu/osf/tuition -
fees/graduate.   
 
Scholarships   
Applicants (domestic and international) are automatically considered for Katz School scholarships upon submission of a completed application. If awarded, you are notified in your admission letter. Please contact your Katz School admissions representative with any questions.   
Graduate Financial Aid   
Unlike undergraduate financial aid, graduate students do not receive a financial aid package.  Instead, funding for graduate education comes four main sources:   
• Institutional Aid:  Funding that comes from the university, typically in scholarships.   
• Federal Aid:  Funding that comes from the U .S. government, typically in loans, only available to 
U.S. citizens and permanent residents.   
• External Funding:  Funding that comes from a source outside the university or government, such as 
a scholarship, grant, or fellowship. You find and apply for these on your own.   
• Private Loans:  Funding, in the form of loans, that comes from nongovernment al sources.   
 
All U.S. citizens and permanent residents  who plan to apply for federal aid must submit a Free 
Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at www.fafsa.gov. You must complete the FAFSA each 
year to receive funding. Your award eligibility is based on your previous year’s tax return. Our FAFSA code is 002903. International students are not eligible to submit a FAFSA  but are eligible to receive Katz  School  scholarships.   
The Office of Student Finance (OSF) helps with different types of funding and will work with your 
company’s tuition reimbursement policies. For students coming from outside  the U.S., YU can also 
accommodate scholarship awards from your home country. To learn more , pleas e visit 
www.yu.edu/osf/tuition -fees/graduate  or contact Nancy O’Barr, OSF graduate admissions representative, at nancy.obarr@yu.edu . 
   
 
U.S. Federal Aid: Stafford Loan and Graduate Plus Loan   
To be eligible for federal financial aid from the U.S. government, you must :  
• Be a U.S. citizen or eligible noncitizen   
• Be enrolled for at least half -time status (6 or more credits) each semester in a degree -granting  
program   
• Complete the FAFSA each year   
• Not be in default on previous federal loans or owe a refund on a federal grant   
• Maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) as outlined by YU   
 
Federal Stafford Loans are not based on financial need , do not require a credit check , and include benefits 
such as a fixed annual interest rate, six -month grace period, and deferment options to help you succeed in 
repayment.   
Graduate Plus Loans depend on your credit check. You may borrow over the amount of your cost of 
attendance (minus any other financial aid) to cover costs , such as books, lab fees, and other costs related 
to funding your education. The Graduate PLUS Loan offers a fixed annual interest rate. Contact the 
Office of Student Finance for more detailed information on federal financial aid.   
The Office of Student Finance  (OSF) manages the federal aid process. To learn more, visit 
www.yu.edu/osf/tuition -fees/graduate  or contact Nancy O’Barr, OSF graduate admissions representative, 
at nancy.obarr@yu.edu.    
 
 
STUDENT HEALTH INSURANCE AND IMMUNIZATIONS   
 
Student Health Insurance  
Students who are registered for 6 or more credits and are not in a program that is designated as entirely online are required to have health insurance. The requirement for health insurance can be met in two ways. Some students have coverage independently or are covered by a parent or spouse’s insurance. In cases where students do not have health insurance at the beginning of the semester, they must purchase the insurance that the university has arranged.  
  
Health  insurance information will be communicated by the university to students after they register for classes. The cost of health insurance is added to the payment invoices and only removed if the student has successfully gone through the waiver process. There  is a window for waiving health insurance at the beginning of each semester, which typically ends 60 days after the semester starts.   
 
For more information, contact yuship@yu.edu  or visit yu.edu/student -life/resources/health/ insurance. 
 
International Students:  To waive health insurance, your health plan must meet the following 
requirements:   
1. The insurance company must be headquartered and operating in North America with a North 
American claims address and customer telephone number.   
2. The insurance plan must be active and cover students from the start of the coverage period , which 
begins August 15 of the current  year and extends  to August 14  of the next year.   
3. The plan must provide inpatient hospitalization benefits in the New York City area , including 
mental health benefits.   
4. The plan must provide outpatient benefits in the New York City area , including office visits, 
outpatient mental health benefits, maternity, and laboratory and radiology procedures .  
5. Coverage for emergency -only care does not satisfy the requirement.   
6. The maximum benefit payable under the insurance plan must be unlimited (U .S. currency). The 
insurance plan must also include coverage for medic al evacuation of at least $50,000 (US 
Currency); repatriation of remains of at least $25,000 (US Currency) per year; and a deductible 
not to exceed $500 (US Currency) per year.   
7. The insurance plan must cover preventative treatment.   
 
State mandated  Immunizations  
All students  taking  6 credits  or more  on-campus  must  provide  proof  of immunization  to measles,  mumps, and rubella  (MMR)  as required  by New  York  State  public  health  law. 
All students taking 6 credits or more on -campus must provide a complete Meningococcal 
Response Form or submit proof of meningococcal vaccination within the past five years.  
All students  studying  on-campus  are required  to submit  proof  of vaccination  for COVID-19. 
The Office  of Student  Services  will send MMR  and Meningococcal  Response  Forms  to all 
registered students  prior  to the start of the semester.  These  forms  must  be returned  by the first day of classes. If you have questions, contact yuhealthcenter@yu.edu. 
 
STUDENT ID CARDS  
 
Your YU ID card is part of the OneCard system, which allows students access to campus buildings, free 
shuttles, library accounts, dining services, and printing accounts. All students are required to have a YU ID card, regardless of whether they are an on -campus or online student.   
Students can view account balances at onecard.yu.edu . Sign in with your YUAD username and password 
(see page 6 ). This number usually beings with 800.  If you don’t know your YUAD username and 
password, visit yu.edu/findid . You can also download the OneCard app for access to their YU ID card 
anywhere. For assistance with the YU ID card, contact  yucardsupport@yu.edu . 
What can you do with your  YU ID card?   
1. Access campus buildings   
2. Ride the free local or intercampus shuttle   
3. Check out books from the university library system   
4. Access online library resources remotely   
5. If you add money to your meal plan account, use your  YU ID card to pay for food  in the cafeterias 
or at local participating restaurants, tax free   
6. Obtain student discounts   
 
How to Obtain Your Student ID   
Send  either  a passport -style photo o r headshot o f yourself with a solid color background, to 
yucardpix@yu.edu  with your:   
• Legal name   
• YU ID number   
• School (Katz School)   
• Program   
• Campus (Beren, Resnick or Wilf) (Online  students: select Beren as your campus.)   
 
Students can pick up their YU ID at the security offices at:   
• Beren Campus : 50 East 34 Street, NY, NY 10016  (Brookdale Residence Hall ) 
• Wilf Campus : 521 West 185th Street, NY, NY 10033  
 
Please allow 48-72 hours before picking up your YU ID at the security office.   
 
 
 
KATZ  SCHOOL CAMPUS LOCATIONS  
Beren Campus  
The Katz School’s  main administrative offices , as well as several faculty offices , are located at the Beren Campus in midtown Manhattan (205 Lexington Avenue, 6th Floor, New York, NY 10016).  
 
The following programs hold classes at Beren (215 and 245 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10016) : 
• M.S. in Artificial Intelligence  
• M.S. in Biotechnology Management and Entrepreneurship  
• M.S. in Cybersecurity  
• M.S. in Data Analytics and Visualization  
• M.S. in Digital Marketing and Media  
• M.S. in Speech -Language Pathology  
• M.A. and Ph.D. Math*  
• M.A. in Physics*  
 
*Some math and physics classes meet at  the Wilf Campus in Washington Heights  (2495 Amsterdam 
Avenue, New York, NY 10033).  
 
Resnick Campus  
The Occupational Therapy Doctorate and M.S. in Physician Assistant Studies programs are located at 
YU’s Jack and Pearl Resnick Campus (1165 Morris Park Avenue and 1225 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx, 
NY, 10461) .  
 
Online Campus  
The Katz School’s online programs meet on Canvas and Zoom:  
• M.S. in Speech-Language Pathology  
• M.S. in Cybersecurity  
• M.S. in Biotechnology Management and Entrepreneurship  
• M.S. in Digital Marketing and Media  
 
For more information about YU campuses, including a virtual tour of Beren and Wilf, visit 
www.yu.edu/campuses. 
 
  
 
TRANSPORTATION  AND GETTING  AROUND  
 
New York City is made up of five boroughs: Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, Bronx, and Staten Island. 
Cheer on the Yankees or spend a day at the Bronx Zoo. Enjoy emerging arts in Brooklyn or take a walk 
across the historic Brooklyn Bridge. Ride the free  Staten  Island  ferry and breathe in the parks and beaches. Hop on the subway to Queens and enjoy different cuisine at every stop. Or spend a whole day in Manhattan: tour a skyscraper in the morning, eat a picnic lunch in Central Park, explore a museum in the afternoon, and catch a Broadway show in the evening.  There’s always something to do in the City That Never Sleeps!  
Campus Shuttle   
YU’s Office of Safety and Security provides free intercampus shuttle service in the evenings between the Beren Campus located at 33rd and Lexington Avenue and Wilf campuses, as well as  free local shuttle service to campus buildings, local transit hubs, and  other approved stops. To access the intercampus shuttle, students will need to make an account  at www.yushuttles.com. 
Parking   
For parking options near YU’s Wilf Campus, visit:  www.yu.edu/safety-security/parking . 
NYC Transit Information. To get a better understanding of the public transit options in New York City and how you can travel to campus from other neighborhoods in Manhattan  and the other boroughs , take a look at the Metropolitan Transit Authority’s tourism page: web.mta.info/metrocard/tourism/ . In particular , check out  the maps to learn which subways and buses will take you to campus from wherever you decide to live.  
 
 
 
Subways   
Beren Campus   
The 6 train at 33rd Street is one block away from the Beren Campus. The 6 is a local train that runs 
through the east side of Manhattan along Lexington and Park Avenues and continues into the Bronx. 
Connect from the local 6 to the express 4 or 5 trains that run into Brooklyn.   
The second closest subway stop to the Beren Campus  is Herald Square (34th St . and 6th Ave). This is a transportation hub; the B, D, F, M, N, Q, R,  W trains all stop at Herald Square , connect ing you to every borough. One block west at Penn Station ( 34th St . and 7th Ave ), you’ll find the 1, 2, 3, A, C, E trains.   
Wilf Campus   
The closest subway stop to the Wilf Campus is the 181st Street stop of the 1  train, just 2 blocks west and 4 blocks south of campus. The 1 is a local train with stops about every 10 blocks. To simplify your commute to campus, search for a n apartment along the 1 line , which stretches from the southernmost tip of Manhattan through Washington Heights  and up to the Bronx.  
The second closest subway stop to the Wilf Campus is the 181st Street stop of the A train, which is on the western side of Washington Heights. The A is an express train, and the distance between stops varies greatly depending on the neighborhood. The A train stretches from Queens all the way to the 
northernmost tip of Manhattan.   
Resnick Campus   
The Jack and Pearl Resnick Campus in the Bronx is located at 1165 Morris Park Avenue. Nearby MTA 
Buses are Bx8, Bx21 and BxM 10 and Subway 5 and 6 Trains. The 6 is a local train that runs through the east side of Manhattan along Lexington and Park Avenues and continues into the Bronx. You can connect from the local 6 to the express 4 or 5 trains that runs into Brooklyn. Nearby attractions include the Bronx Zoo and the New York Botanical Garden.  
  
 
Connecting to the Suburbs   
In addition to the subways and buses of New York City (Manhattan, the Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens, and 
Staten Island), public transportation options also exist on Long Island and in New Jersey.   
The Long Island Railroad  (LIRR) and New Jersey Transit rail system bring passengers into Penn Station  at 34th Street and 7th Avenue, on the west side of Manhattan. From Penn Station, you can take the 1 or the A subway line uptown to Washington Heights or you can walk across 34th Street towards the Beren Campus, which is on the east side of Manhattan.   
New Jersey Transit also includes an extensive bus system. Seven bus routes travel from New Jersey into the George Washington Bridge Bus Station (GWBBS), which is a 15 -minute walk from the Wilf Campus. A handful of buses from other operators stop at the GWBBS as well. You may wish to live in New Jersey near one of these bus routes, allowing you an easy commute to campus. More information about the GWBBS and the buses that stop there can be found on the Port Authority of N ew York and N ew Jersey’s website. Yeshiva University also participates in the New Jersey Transit QuikTik Student Discount 
program.   

 
HOUSING  
The Katz School’s  Office of Student Services provides a list of resources to help domestic and 
international students find affordable housing options around New York. Whether students are coming 
from the tristate area, a different part of the United States, or another country, we know the transition to New York City requires planning. Our staff is here to help from the time students apply to the time students move.   
Support includes resources for finding an apartment, arranging transportation, getting settled in the city, and jumpstarting friendships.   
On-Campus Housing   
On-campus housing for graduate students in Yeshiva University's graduate dormitory, The Benjamin, and 
Married Student Housing is extremely limited and is given on a first come, first served basis. Since on campus housing is not guaranteed, Katz graduate students are strongly encouraged to seek their own off campus accommodations.    
• YU's Graduate Dormitory:  The Benjamin is located in midtown Manhattan (29th Street and 
Lexington Ave) near YU's Beren Campus. Contact thebenjamin@yu.edu  for more information.   
• Married Student Housing : Married students may apply to live in an apartment whose monthly rent 
is negotiated by the university. These apartments have very limited availability and are located in 
Washington Height s near YU’s Wilf Campus. Contact  Marcy Reiz at reiz@yu.edu  to request the 
Married Student Housing Application.   
Off-Campus Housing   
Finding affordable housing in N ew York City can take time. Students who require lodging should plan 
sufficient time before classes start to look for proper accommodation.   
You can search for apartments in the New York City and surrounding areas with these online tools:     
• Zillow:  https://www.zillow.com/new-york-ny/apartments  
• ForRent : https://www.forrent.com/find/NY/metro -NYC/New+York    
• My New Place : https://www.mynewplace.com    
• Spare Room : https://www.spareroom.com/roommates    
• IRoomIT:  https://www.iroomit.com/new-york   
• Roomi:  https://roomiapp.com    
  
 
Katz School Community Facebook Group  
Connect with Katz School classmates to find roommates, ask about the best neighborhoods, and get other 
housing advice:  www.facebook.com/groups/katzschool/ 
Housing Communities   
• Educational Housing Services (EHS): EHS manages several dormitory -style student and intern 
housing facilities in New York City: www.studenthousing.org/ . 
• Belmont Housing Reality:  Belmont Realty has established a reputation for managing quality off -
campus student housing in the picturesque Little Italy section of the Bronx with well -run off -
campus student accommodations that offer the best in quality, service, location , safety, and 
affordability: https://www.belmontstudenthousing.com/ . 
• International House:  I-House is home to approximately 700  resident members from more than 
100 countries: www.ihouse-nyc.org/   
Short -term Housing   
While you search for a more permanent place near N ew York City, you may need temporary 
accommodation. Hostels can provide cheaper short -term housing.    
• 92nd Street YMCA (92 Y): https://www.92ny.org/residence  
• American Dream Hostel:  https://www.americandreamhostel.com  
• Hostel World:  https://www.hoste lworld.com     
• AirBnb:  www.airbnb.com  
 

PLEASE NOTE that while we are happy to provide a list of potential sources of off campus housing, Yeshiva University does not coordinate or monitor non -university housing. Individuals who choose to live off-campus are responsible for managing 
their accommodations. YU does not assume responsibility or liability for these resources.
 
 
 
 
STUDENT LIFE AND SUPPORT SERVICES  
 
Student Organizations  
Student organizations  are a vital part of the Katz School experience, hosting social events, holiday 
celebrations, and service and networking opportunities throughout the year.  
Current student organizations  include:  
• Katz School  Graduate Student Association  
• Chinese Student Union  
• Indian Students Association  
• ISACA Student Group 
• National Student Speech, Language and Hearing Association YU Wilf Chapter  
• Occupational Therapy Student Association  
• Physician Assistant Student Association  
 
Graduate students can also form new clubs based on their interests.  Learn more at yu.edu/katz/clubs. Shevet Glaubach Center for Career Strategy and Professional Development  
YU’s career center offers a range of programs and resources, from personalized counseling and career 
planning to the latest professional search technologies. The career center also hosts on -campus recruiting events, career fairs, and information sessions, partnering with employers, alumni, and community supporters to connect students with professional opportunities. In addition, YU faculty offer career mentoring, helping students to identify career options and opportunities for further study.  
Learn more at www.yu.edu/sgc 
 
 
Library Services   
 
All students at any Yeshiva University campus have full access to the entire YU library system: articles, 
journals, books, databases, and more. YUFind is our discovery service system, allowing you to access 
many of our electronic databases with a single se arch. Library staff are available to help with research 
procedures  and proper citations . Learn more at yu.edu/libraries .  
 
Library locations:  
 
Beren Campus : Hedi Steinberg Library  
245 Lexington Ave, 2nd Floor, New York, NY 10016  
Phone: (212) 340 -7720   
 
Wilf Campus : Mendel Gottesman & Pollack Libraries  
2520 Amsterdam Ave, NY, NY 10033  
Phone: (646) 592 -4045   
 
Resnick Campus : Samuel Gottesman Library  
1300 Morris Park Ave, Bronx, NY 10461  
Phone: (718) 430 -3108   
 
Online Programs : Online Library Access via www.yu.edu/libraries  
 
Counseling  Center  
The Counseling Center offers free, confidential services to all Yeshiva University students.  The staff includes therapists, psychologists, and psychiatrists. Visit yu.edu/student-life/counseling  for more information.  
Disability Services   
The Office of Disability Services collaborates with students, faculty , and staff to provide reasonable accommodation and services to students who self -identify as having a disability. Learn more at  www.yu.edu/student-life/resources-and-services/disability-services. 
  

 
REGISTRATION  
Registration begins a few months before the start of the semester.   
Students who have submitted a deposit will be contacted by the Katz School’s  Academic Operations team with instructions on how to register for your classes. However, before you register you must speak with your academic advisor or program director to ensure you are taking the correct sequence of courses.   
Course Registration Number  (CRN):  Each course has its own unique course registration number or CRN. 
Please pay close attention to the time  and date associated with your CRN, so that you take the correct course recommended by your academic advisor or program director.   
If you have questions about course schedules, descriptions, and class times, please email katz@yu.edu  or call (646) 592-4753.   
 
ORIENTATION  
The Katz School’s New Student Orientation is designed to help students understand the 
resources  available  to them during  their time as a student.   
Orientation  will be scheduled  close  to the start of the semester.  You will receive  information  about  
orientation  a few months  before starting  classes.  In the meantime, contact katz@yu.edu  with any 
orientation -related questions.  
 
CONNECT WITH US  
Follow us on social media and stay connected to everything that’s happening at the Katz School : 
 LinkedIn: Katz School of Science and Health  
 Instagram:  YU Katz School  
 Facebook:  YU Katz School  
 Blog: Katz School of Science and Health  
 
 
HELPFUL CONTACTS  
 
 
STUDENT SERVICES  
 
Rafael Reyes  
Director of Graduate Student Life and 
Community Engagement  
katzstudentservices@yu.edu  
(646) 592-4729  
 
Office of International  Services  
www. yu.edu/oiss  
oiss@yu.edu  
(646) 592-4127  
 
Office of Student  Finance  
www.yu.edu/osf    
studentaid@yu.edu  
(646) 592-4166  
 
Office of the Registrar  
berenregistrar@yu.edu  
 
Library  
libguides.yu.edu/home  
 
IT Help  Desk  
helpdesk@yu.edu   
(800) 337-2975  
Helpdesk  requests:  
ellucian.service-now.com  
 
 
  
 
ACADEMIC PROGRAM SUPPORT  
 
Office of Academic Operations  
katz@yu.edu  
 
Simon Jaffe  
Program Advisor , 
Speech-Language Pathology 
simon.jaffe@yu.edu  
(646) 592-4717  
 
Nebahat Bayrakcioglu  
Program Advisor,  
Physician Assistant Studies  
nebahat.bayrakcioglu@yu.edu  
(646) 592-4034  
 
Gladys Davis  
Program  Advisor , 
Occupational Therapy  Doctorate 
gladys.davis@yu.edu  
(646) 592-4762  
 
 
GRADUATE ADMISSIONS  
 
katzgrad@yu.edu  
(833) 241-4723 (GRAD)  
 
Jared Hakimi  
Director of Graduate Admissions 
jared.hakimi@yu.edu  
(646) 592-4722  
 
Xavier Velasquez  
Assistant Director of Graduate Admissions 
xavier.velasquez@yu.edu  
(646) 592-4737  
 
Shayna Matzner  
Assistant Director of Graduate Admissions  
shayna.matzner@yu.edu  
(646) 592-4726  
 
  
 
 
Katz School of Science and Health  
205 Lexington Avenue, 6th Floor  
New York, NY 1001 6 
(646) 592 -4753  
www.yu.edu/katz  
