 
 82 
XII. PATENTS, LICENSING AND INTELLECTUAL 
PROPERTY  
A. General Policy  
i. Yeshiva University encourages and supports research and the 
publication and use of results. YU recognizes that research 
conducted by its faculty, technical staff and students may lead 
to inventions and discoveries by inventor(s) (hereinafter referred 
to as "Inventor") , which should be patented or licensed for one 
or more of the following reasons:  
a. To serve the public interest;  
b. To comply with the requirements of sponsored research 
grants, fe llowship awards and contracts for research;  
c. To promote the development of useful drugs, processes 
and devices which would not be developed without patent 
protection;  
d. To encourage invention and insure rewards for the Inventor 
as herein provided; and  
e. To supp ort facilities and the research and education 
programs of YU by means of a share of income derived 
from the commercial licensing of inventions and patents.  
 
ii. The Yeshiva University Patent Policy is intended to be 
consistent with these principles and purpose s and not to fetter 
scientific endeavor or inhibit pursuit of further related research.  
 
iii. Whenever used in this Patent Policy , the provisions relating to 
patents and patent royalties shall , whether specifically 
mentioned or not, also apply to the commercial licensing and 
the royalties obtained from it  for inventions which are not 
patented but which have commercial value or special 
technology or special art.  
 
  
 83 
B. Disclosure of Invention to Yeshiva University  
i. Faculty, staff , students and visiting faculty are required to report 
all inventions to the Provost and/or the Committee on Patents 
that have resulted  from research supported entirely or partly by 
YU resources  as soon as possible after co nception or first 
actual reduction to practice . Such reports, submitted using the 
Yeshiva University Invention Disclosure Form, shall be made 
descriptive enough for  the invention to be understood and 
evaluated for possible filing of a patent application or  the 
development of a commercial licensing agreement.  
ii. In the case of supported research, the Committee on Patents 
must be advised of any invention disclosure requirements of the 
granting or sponsoring agency.  
iii. It will be the responsibility of the Provost, w ith the advice of the 
Committee on Patents and/or the Office of Biotechnology, to 
determine if YU is interested in pursuing a patent for any 
invention disclosure.  Sections C. through J. will detail what will 
apply until YU declines to patent.  
 
C. Ownership of  Patents and Intellectual Property  
i. Patent rights, copyrights, computer programs, software, 
databases, testing procedures, tangible research materials and 
all other intellectual property, whether patentable or not 
(hereinafter collectively referred to as “I ntellectual Property”) , 
resulting from research carried on by faculty members, 
technical staff members or students and supported entirely or 
partly by Yeshiva University resources shall be assigned to and 
owned by Yeshiva University. YU shall pay to the In ventor a 
fixed proportion of the financial returns from the licensing or 
exploitation of such Intellectual Property in accordance with the 
provisions of Section F . below.  
ii. Intellectual Property resulting from research carried on by a 
student in fulfillment of course requirements or other 
requirements for a degree or in connection with a formal training 
program , including the preparation of a thesis or dissertation, 
shall be construed as using  YU resources and shall be subject 
to the provisions of Section C. i. above.   
 84 
iii. Ownership of Intellectual Property resulting from research 
performed by a visiting faculty member and supported entirely 
or partly by YU resources shall be determined on a case -by-
case basis.  
iv. Intellectual Property resulting from inventions and discoveries 
made by members of the faculty, the technical staff or students 
in connection with government -sponsored research contracts, 
grants, fellowships or other such arrangements, shall be 
controlled by the terms of those arrangements. Faculty or staff  
members accepting government -sponsored research shall 
execute such agreements as will enable YU to meet its 
obligations to the sponsoring agencies.  
v. If Intellectual Property results from such research grants or 
contracts from non -government sources, such I ntellectual 
Property shall be subject to the terms of Section C. i. above, 
unless the terms of the grant or contract pertaining to the above 
research are in conflict with Section C. i., in which case the 
terms of the grant or contract shall govern.  
vi. Copyrig htable works that are not within the scope of 
employment and are not created using YU resources, such as 
scholarly works and books, shall be owned by the author.  
 
D. Management of Patents  
Yeshiva University shall have the responsibility for the management 
of patent applications and patents. All determinations and actions 
concerning the management of patent applications and patents shall 
remain with YU.  
E. Licenses  
Licenses for commercial development of Intellectual Property shall 
be sought to ensure that useful i nventions can be made available , 
under reasonable terms , in products or services beneficial to the 
public. In cases involving substantial developmental expenditures by 
a licensee, or for other special reasons, an exclusive license may be 
given, subject to the terms of any applicable grant or contract. All 
such licensing agreements shall be negotiated by Albert Einstein 
College of Medicine ’s Office of Biotechnology and approved and 
executed by an appropriate officer of Einstein.   
 85 
 
F. Distribution of Income  
Income will refer to  all consideration (e.g. monetary, non -monetary 
and equity) derived by Yeshiva University from Intellectual Property.  
i. If income is received from the licensing of Intellectual Property 
by YU to a third party, YU will pay and reward the I nventor 
within 90 days of its receipt of such income in accordance with 
the provisions below.  
ii. YU will first deduct all direct assignable expenses incurred in 
connection with the filing, prosecution and maintenance of any 
relevant patents and the negotiatio n of the contract for the 
licensing of the Intellectual Property (including but not limited to 
specialized attorney's fees) . These  expenses shall be 
determined by YU’s sole but reasonable discretion. After 
deduction of direct assignable expenses, fifteen p ercent (15%) 
of the remaining income will be allocated to the Office of 
Biotechnology to defray the operating costs of the Office. The 
remaining net income will be distributed in the following manner:  
a. One-third will be allocated to the Inventor or his/her estate 
and/or heirs. All payments due to an Inventor under this 
policy will be transmitted via a separate payment outside of 
the payroll system. Fringe benefits will therefore not be 
applicable to such payments . These  payments will be 
reported annually to the individual and to the Internal 
Revenue Service on Form 1099 or on such other forms as 
may be required periodically  by the Internal Revenue 
Service. In the event that an Inventor leaves Yeshiva 
University, the Inventor shall be responsible for providing  
forwarding addresses to YU.  
b. One-third will be allocated to a research account 
maintained by Yeshiva University on behalf of any Inventor 
with a primary appointment to YU for support of the 
Inventor's academic/research pursuits. Such income will be 
conside red incremental funding for the Inventor. In the 
event that an Inventor leaves YU, the research account will 
revert to YU , and the status  of the income in the account 
and any future income will be determined by the Provost. 
The Inventor ’s research allocati on as described above, and  
 86 
the indirect costs to be assessed on this portion of the 
distribution for each license are as follows:  
1. The first $30,000 of cumulative income will be free of 
indirect costs.  
2. The second $30,000 will be subject to indirect costs at  
one-half the prevailing institutional rate.  
3. Cumulative income in excess of $60,000 will be 
subject to indirect costs at the prevailing institutional 
rate. 
c. One-third will be allocated to the unrestricted funds of 
Yeshiva University to be used by the University in the 
pursuit of its education, research and clinical missions.  
iii. Exception to the method of income distribution described above 
will be made in the case of Intellectual Property resulting from 
sponsored research if the terms of the agreement bet ween 
Yeshiva University and the sponsor do not permit such a 
distribution. In that event, the terms of the agreement with the 
sponsor will govern. This exception will apply to funding from 
both governmental and non -governmental sources.  
iv. If there is more th an one Inventor of Intellectual Property, the 
Inventors shall meet and decide among themselves their 
respective shares of any income to be distributed to the 
Inventors pursuant to Section F. ii. above. The Inventors shall 
then inform  the Office of Biotechn ology of their agreement in a 
written statement signed by all of the Inventors. In the case of a 
dispute among the Inventors regarding their respective shares,  
it shall be resolved by  the Provost. Mechanisms of dispute 
resolution may include, but are not l imited to, mediation, 
arbitration or other services performed by the Committee on 
Patents. Any recommendations or decisions made as a result of 
mediation, arbitration or by the Committee on Patents will be 
subject to review and approval by the Provost and his decision 
shall be final. All expenses incurred by YU in connection with 
resolving the dispute will be deducted as an additional direct 
assignable expense prior to income distribution. No income 
shall be distributed to the Inventors until an agreement o n the 
Inventors respective shares is submitted to the Office of 
Biotechnology or until any dispute between the Inventors 
regarding their respective shares is resolved.   
 87 
v. Any equity that Yeshiva University receives as consideration 
under a license agreement w ill be held and managed by YU. 
YU shall liquidate such equity by sale in the public market upon 
the first available liquidity event. Once the equity is liquidated, 
the proceeds will be distributed as cash according to the 
method in Section F. ii. above. It  is not the intent of Einstein to 
hold equity for the purposes of maximizing profits.  
 
G. Publication  
The right to publish the results of sponsored research where 
Intellectual Property may be involved shall be subject to the following 
conditions:  
i. YU shall not  bar or prohibit publication of disclosures and 
inventions on which patent applications have been filed.  
ii. As soon as it is possible to do so, a n Inventor has the obligation 
to file an  Invention Disclosure Statement with YU . This 
statement must be submitted simultaneous ly or prior to the 
submission of a paper for publication  and will disclos e the 
Intellectual Property. In all events, the Inventor shall disclose his 
invention to YU a minimum of 90 days in advance of any printed 
or oral public disclosure so tha t an application for a patent may 
be prepared and filed prior to any such public disclosure.  
iii. YU will, if requested or required by agreement, supply a 
sponsor with a copy of the proposed publication prior to 
publication.  
 
H. Committee on Patents  
The Dean of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine will appoint a 
Committee on Patents and such other committees as are deemed 
appropriate to implement YU ’s patent and licensing agreement 
policies. Among the responsibilities of the Committee(s) will be the 
following:  
  
 88 
i. To recommend to the Dean of AECOM and/or the Provost of 
Yeshiva University which Intellectual Property should be 
processed in accordance with the applicable sections of this 
Policy on Patents and Licensing Agreements, including Section 
J. Recommendations  shall be made by the Committee(s) within 
90 days after Intellectual Property is brought to the  
Committee(s) notice.  
ii. To determine, when necessary, whether Intellectual Property 
developed by a member of the faculty, technical staff or student 
resulted from research supported in whole or in part by YU 
resources or whether such Intellectual Property was unrelated 
to YU activities and resources.  
iii. To make general recommendations regarding proposals to 
patent Intellectual Property as it relates to YU ’s mission.  
iv. To act in an advisory capacity to the Provost with regard to 
patents assigned to YU or in which YU has a claim or interest.  
v. To assist the Provost in resolving disputes arising from patent 
and licensing matters, including any disputes arising under 
Section F., in accordance with this Policy on Patents and 
Licensing Agreements.  
 
I. Agreement with Yeshiva University  
A form of agreement with Yeshiva University shall be signed and 
entered into by all faculty, students and research staff 
acknowledging that they have received and read a copy of this 
Official Policy on Patents and Licensing Agreements and agree to 
abide thereby . Such personnel will agree further to disclose in writing 
promptly to YU any Intellectual Property made by such personnel 
and to assign to YU th e entire right, title and interest in and thereto 
as required and defined in this Policy on Patents and Licensing 
Agreements.  
  
 89 
J. Where Yeshiva University Declines to Patent  
i. Upon disclosure of Intellectual Property to YU, it will be the 
responsibility of the Provost to determine if YU will decline to 
pursue a patent. The Provost shall notify  the Inventor  in writing 
of this decision within 90 days of disclosure. If the Provost 
declines pursuit of a patent, the option to pursue a patent 
reverts to the Inventor.  
ii. If at any time during the patent application process YU decides 
to discontinue pursuit of the application, the Provost shall notify  
the Inventor  in writing within 15 days of this decision. The option 
to pursue a patent shall then revert to the Inventor. Al l 
information held by YU that is pertinent to the patent application 
will be made available to the Inventor.  
iii. If YU decides to decline or discontinue pursuit of a patent on 
any Intellectual Property, YU shall retain ownership of such 
Intellectual Property a nd any patent or application thereon. If 
the Inventor decides to pursue patent protection at his/her own 
expense, the Inventor shall:  
a. Promptly notify YU in writing of his/her intent to pursue 
patent protection;  
b. Assign ownership of the Intellectual Property  to YU;  
c. Obligate patent counsel to copy YU on all communications 
with the United States Patent and Trademark Office; and  
d. Refer all third -party interest in the Intellectual Property 
directly to YU for licensing.  
iv. If income is derived from a patent declined by Einstein, it will be 
distributed as follows:  
After reimbursement to the Inventor and then YU of direct 
assignable expenses incurred, fifteen percent (15%) of the 
remaining income will be allocated to the Office of 
Biotechnology to defray the operating c osts of the Office. The 
remaining net income will be distributed in the following manner:  
a. The first $15,000 will be allocated exclusively to the 
Inventor or his/her estate and/or heirs;  
  
 90 
b. Two-thirds of the additional income will be allocated to the 
Inventor  or his/her estate and/or heirs;  
c. The remaining one -third of income will be allocated to YU.  
 
K. Management of Licenses  
Management of all licensing agreements for Intellectual Property 
owned by YU, remains with YU.  
 
 
 
 