The Katz School's M.S. in Speech-Language Pathology, based in New York City, is one of the few SLP programs in the country specializing in the medical aspects of speech-language pathology. Our master's program takes a multidisciplinary approach to diagnosing and treating speech, language, swallowing and communication cases across the lifespan. With three options to pursue your studies—full-time on-campus, full-time online or part-time online—you can choose the program that fits your schedule.
While at YU, students participate in four clinical externships, learn how to conduct telehealth sessions and gain clinical experience under the guidance of faculty, supervisors and mentors. Within the coursework, students utilize technology, such as endoscopy, electrical stimulation and ultrasound, to assist with the diagnosis of voice, speech and swallowing disorders. They also obtain the necessary counseling skills to support families facing a challenging diagnosis. In addition, students have the opportunity to attend professional conferences, contribute to scholarly publications and integrate evidence-based practice into clinical practice.

"At Yeshiva, we’re experts in the medical aspects of speech pathology, and each of us teaches to our own specialty. That’s truly unheard of.” ~ Dr. Marissa Barrera, Program Director and Assistant Dean of Health Sciences

 
The program is ideal for ambitious and passionate individuals with a background in communication sciences. Upon graduation, students will be prepared to apply for state licensure, SLP doctoral programs and certification from the American Speech-Language Hearing Association (ASHA).
SLP graduates enter the workforce as health care practitioners who are trained and dedicated to the preservation and prolongation of life, including improving the quality of life, health and wellness for people of all ages.
Speech-language pathology salaries range from $66,000 to $100,000 based on experience, according to a 2019 ASHA annual salary report. There's no better time to pursue a career in SLP as jobs in the field are expected to grow 25 percent until 2029, much faster than the average for all occupations, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Highlights:

Gain experience in the assessment, diagnosis, treatment and evaluation of pediatric through geriatric patients
Conduct clinical fieldwork in a range of healthcare settings, including early-intervention centers, schools, private practices, rehabilitation centers, and hospitals
Prepare to participate in professional conferences and academic publications
Obtain clinical training within the Katz Community Virtual Clinic as well as external externships

Accreditation:

The Master of Science (M.S.) education program in speech-language pathology residential and distance education at Yeshiva University is accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association, 2200 Research Boulevard, #310, Rockville, MD 20850, 800-498-2071 or 301-296-5700.
, Get your M.S. in speech-language pathology from Yeshiva University, a U.S. News & World Report top-ranked university in New York City.


