Occupational therapists help people of all ages manage the daily activities, or occupations, they need and want to do; prevent or live better with illness, injury and disability; and promote personal health and well-being.
The Katz School’s entry-level Occupational Therapy Doctorate, the first fully accredited entry-level OT doctoral program in the New York metropolitan area, trains caring and competent scholar-practitioners to develop and deliver holistic services through the integration of theory, research and knowledge-based practice and clinical skills.
As one of these scholar-practitioners, you will be a lifelong learner, as well as a leader and an advocate for the profession in diverse local and global communities. In state-of-the-art laboratories, nationally and internationally renowned faculty will assist you in applying the knowledge that you've acquired toward building the critical skills that will enable you to promote health, well-being and resilience through occupational engagement.
Demand for qualified occupational therapists continues to increase. With YU’s hands-on, entry-level Occupational Therapy Doctorate, you’ll graduate in under three years with the expertise to help clients gain greater independence and confidence in performing the tasks of everyday living. Occupational therapy is ranked in the top 20 in U.S. News & World Report's Top Health Care Jobs. For more information about occupational therapy, visit the American Occupational Therapy Association website here.

Program Highlights:

In our fully functional OT labs, gain hands-on experience with specialized equipment, simulate interventions and build the skills needed to become an expert practitioner
Focus on occupation-based practice, community health, resilience and well-being
Develop critical thinking skills, clinical reasoning, creativity, flexibility, adaptability and an understanding of diversity
Provide interventions, develop and evaluate community programs, and improve occupational engagement in a variety of practice settings for people of all ages
Engage in inter-professional learning by collaborating with students and faculty from multiple departments in the YU community
Build relationships with top clinical directors throughout New York and across the United States in competitive fieldwork placements
In an individually tailored 14-week capstone project, build on academic foundation, synthesize advanced occupational therapy knowledge, pursue areas of professional interest in depth, and gain advanced research and professional skills and experience
, 

Interested in this program? Apply Now!
