YU’s M.A. in Physics specializes in solving problems in classical and quantum information, mechanical, optical and electronic materials behavior, propagation of waves, biological matter, dynamics, statistical thermodynamics, and hardware and software development. These activities are of intrinsic interest from a fundamental point of view, and they are also geared toward applied physics and engineering.
Our master's in physics explores the fields of foundational and applied physics. It prepares students for careers in academia, industry, teaching, finance and entrepreneurship while also developing an artistic appreciation for observing nature from a physicist’s perspective. With robust knowledge of computer software and hardware development, our graduates secure rewarding jobs in the high-technology field, including developing their own high-tech startups. They also continue on to Ph.D. programs and apply their knowledge in a range of industries, such as engineering, business, finance and medicine. Come to New York City to study and network with the best. Generous scholarships and financial aid are currently available.


Benefits:

Receive industry mentorship
Showcase and publish your research at Katz School's annual Symposium on Science, Technology and Health
Receive a scholarship reducing total tuition to $25K* for your entire graduate degree, start to finish — whether you complete your degree in one or two years
Learn more about the Fellows Program.

B.A./M.A. Pathways Option:

Through the B.A./M.A. option, YU undergraduates can take up to 12 graduate credits that will count toward both their bachelor's and master's degrees. After completing their bachelor's, students can complete their master's in just one more year. 
Admissions criteria: Junior in any YC/SCW major with a minimum GPA of 3.2 and a minimum grade of B-plus in the prerequisite coursework listed below. Students can begin taking graduate coursework in their junior or senior year.
Prerequisites for graduate coursework: The following four physics courses, including at least one course with a lab, with a minimum grade of B-plus in each: mechanics; electromagnetism; and two intermediate/advanced courses.
For more information, visit www.yu.edu/pathways.

Internships and STEM-OPT:

Gain industry experience in major companies, startups and the YU Innovation Lab in New York and elsewhere through internships that count toward your degree. Read more on the curriculum page or speak with an adviser.
Yeshiva University’s master’s degree in physics is a STEM-approved degree. International students may be eligible for up to 36 months of Optional Practical Training (OPT). The program also offers several opportunities for Curricular Practical Training (CPT).
For more information, please contact Department Chair Dr. Fredy Zypman.
Interested in this program? Apply Now!
]