

Burdin Hickok, B.A.
EXPERTISE: Institutional fixed-income, currency and commodities markets. Cross-cultural and crisis management.

Burdin Hickok is an international strategic management expert, political economist and former U.S. diplomat with a long career in the global financial markets with top-tier New York investment banks, is an instructor in the Katz School’s biotechnology program and an adjunct assistant professor of finance, economics and international leadership and management at the NYU School of Professional Studies. He has been an editorial consultant to the Economist Intelligence Unit and a guest contributor on CNBC providing timely insight into the complex political and economic dynamics of the Middle East and the potential for disruptions to the global crude oil markets.

In April 2011, he returned from a three-year appointment with the Department of State as the economic development section head and senior banking and finance advisor to the government of Iraq for the Kirkuk Provincial Reconstruction Team (PRT). The PRTs were civilian-led diplomatic outposts that partnered with the U.S. military and Iraqi provincial governments to help create political progress and economic development in support of long-term stability for Iraq. In this contested province, he led a whole-of-government approach toward development, including close cooperation with the efforts and professionals of the UN Assistance Mission Iraq (UNAMI). He was the spokesperson for U.S. development efforts in Kirkuk and regularly conducted economic briefings at the highest levels for the U.S. government.

He has over 20 years of experience in the fixed-income, foreign currency and commodities markets. He was director of Fixed Income Research Services for Institutional Investor magazine and co-managed the startup of Swiss Bank Corporation’s government-securities sales desk. During his career in the global capital markets, he was an investment strategist and strategic client relationship manager developing portfolio optimization strategies with top New York Investment banks, such as Bankers Trust, Swiss Bank Corporation, Bank of America and Lehman Brothers.

Hickok holds a B.A. in political science from Denison University, has conducted graduate work in international political economy at the University of Virginia and expects to complete his Doctor of Business Administration (ABD) at the Fox School of Business, Temple University, in the spring of 2022.

